fifty years ago today Robert F Kennedy
passed away succumbing to gunshot wounds
just moments after celebrating his win
in the California Democratic primary at
the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles
covering that 1968 Golden State primary
was a 28 year old reporter for KNBC TV
in Los Angeles by the name of Tom Brokaw
Tom takes a look back now at not only
why RFK entered the race but how he
wagered everything on California one
week before his death Bobby Kennedy did
something no member of his family had
ever done he lost an election running
second and the Oregon presidential
primary I'm gonna do all that I can and
I've done all that I can so far and at
the end of it I'm not successful and I
will have to abide by that robert
Francis Kennedy didn't set out to be
president for years he was his older
brother Jack's most trusted adviser his
enforcer as Attorney General but JFK's
assassination transformed Bobby his
grief awakened to the suffering of
others as Senator he turned against the
war in Vietnam which had been Jack's war
at first he stayed out of the 1968
campaign but when anti-war candidate
Eugene McCarthy almost beat incumbent
President Lyndon Johnson in New
Hampshire Kennedy got in announcing from
the same Senate caucus room his brother
had used I am today announcing my
candidacy for the presidency of the
United States I was not interested in
running for president I was not
interested in imposing President Johnson
per se but I was interested in is trying
to develop a meaningful policy in
Vietnam Kennedy knew it wouldn't be easy
I'm going to have a very very rough road
ahead of me I have five months even
before the convention comes just two
weeks later Johnson dropped out I shall
not seek and I will not accept
the nomination of my party for another
term as your president I congratulate
the President on his generosity and his
patriotism they're taking the step that
he did toward world peace
in fact Kennedy and Johnson hated each
other but Kennedy asked for and God a
meeting with the president hoping to
keep him neutral in the campaign Johnson
then met with vice president Hubert
Humphrey who would later announce his
own candidacy then the very next day I
have some very sad news for all of you
the campaign was suddenly tragically
interrupted and that is that Martin
Luther King was shot and was killed
tonight
Kennedy called the crowd in Indianapolis
with an impromptu sermon we need in the
United States is not violence and
lawlessness but is love and wisdom and
compassion toward one another
Indianapolis was one of the few American
cities spared from riots that night and
Kennedy went on to win the Indiana
primary what do you feel in your bones
now about your future I think it's
better today than it was 24 hours ago a
week later he won Nebraska then after
losing Oregon Kennedy bet everything on
California Senator Robert Kennedy
brought his presidential campaign to
Southern California today you here in
the state of California might very well
decide who's going to be the Democratic
nominee and therefore very possibly the
next president of the United States he
campaigned against the war the American
people want no more Vietnam
and spoke out for social justice for
black and white to the poor and
disenfranchised every American no matter
what is background what is Creed what
color of his skin or where he lives
shall walk with dignity and honor in the
United States the California campaign
was an exhilarating exhausting marathon
you could feel the danger in the air no
word more so than at this rally in San
Francisco a heart-stopping moment that
turned out to be just firecrackers the
next day at his ambassador hotel
headquarters in Los Angeles
Kennedy was victorious senator Kennedy
is the winner in the Democratic
presidential primary in California the
country wants to move in a different
direction we want to deal with our own
problems within our own country and we
want peace in Vietnam finally he told an
aide he had escaped his brothers shadow
my thanks to all of you and now it's on
to Chicago and let's win there just
minutes later
he's been shot in the head in the head
he is still alive
that is correct in the head they just
removed him to the hospital on a
stretcher Kennedy's death brought shock
and grief to the nation it seemed to be
more than we could bear
but it's violence ever accomplished but
has it ever created
no martyrs cause has ever been still by
an assassin's bullet we really don't
know if Robert Kennedy could have won
the nomination or the election but
without him we did get more deaths in
Vietnam more racial division we got
Nixon and Watergate
even now we think of what might have
been and we remember him today as his
brother did 50 years ago simply as a
good a decent man who saw wrong and
tried to right it saw suffering and
tried to heal it saw war and tried to
stop it
those of us who loved him
and who take him to his rest today pray
that what he was to us what he wished
for others was someday come to pass for
all the world
thanks for checking out MSNBC on YouTube
and make sure you subscribe to stay
up-to-date on the day's biggest stories
and you can click on any of the videos
around us to watch more 4 Morning Joe
and MSNBC thanks so much for watching